= Welcome to jose.4.j!=

The jose.4.j library is an open source (Apache 2.0) implementation of JWT and the JOSE specification suite. It is written in Java and relies solely on the JCA APIs for cryptography.

[[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519|JSON Web Token]] (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. JWT is the identity token format in OpenID Connect and it is also widely used in OAuth 2.0 and many other contexts that require compact message security. The [[JWT%20Examples|JWT code examples page]] shows how to easily produce and consume JWTs using this library. 

JOSE is short for Javascript Object Signing and Encryption, which is the IETF Working Group that developed the [[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515|JSON Web Signature]] (JWS), [[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7516|JSON Web Encryption]] (JWE) and [[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517|JSON Web Key]] (JWK) specifications. JWS and JWE use JSON and base64url encoding to secure messages in a (relatively) simple, compact and web safe format while JWK defines a JSON representation of cryptographic keys. The actual algorithms for JWS, JWE and JWK are defined in [[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518|JSON Web Algorithms]] (JWA).

The library supports the JWS/JWE compact serializations with the complete suite of JOSE algorithms. A more detailed breakdown is available below in the Algorithm Support section.

== Getting the Library ==
The jose4j library is available in the Maven Central Repository. To use it in your project, add the following dependency to the <dependencies> section of your pom:
{{{
#!xml
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.bitbucket.b_c</groupId>
    <artifactId>jose4j</artifactId>
    <version>0.5.5</version>
  </dependency>
}}}

Dependency coordinate information for a number of other systems is available on the [[http://search.maven.org/#artifactdetails%7Corg.bitbucket.b_c%7Cjose4j%7C0.5.5%7Cjar|artifact details]] at central and compiled jars are also available on the [[../downloads|downloads page]].

== Security ==

jose4j is a standards conform implementation of the JOSE working group's specification. You, the developer, can choose any of the provided signature and encryption algorithms. 

Before doing so please evaluate whether your application is reinventing the wheel by e.g. re-implementing SSL on your application layer. Don't do that.

First look for available standards for your application security and available implementations before mixing your own security protocol!

In general get help from the experts when building web applications.
Read e.g.: Read https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet

Actually read the spec https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7518 and write down why your choice of algorithm makes sense for your implementation.

Here are some general security guidelines when using jose4j:
* check all inputs. 
** whatever you receive from the outside could be forged
** put length checks in place: Parameter too big or too small -> do not put it into jose4j but just bail out
* Don't try to be helpful by returning explaining error messages.


== Code Examples ==
jose.4.j is very easy to use and, to help get started, some code examples are provided demonstrating common things you might want to do with it.

=== Hello World JWE Example ===
The following snippet uses JWE to both encrypt and decrypt the message "Hello World!" in just a few lines of code.
{{{
#!java

 Key key = new AesKey(ByteUtil.randomBytes(16));
 JsonWebEncryption jwe = new JsonWebEncryption();
 jwe.setPayload("Hello World!");
 jwe.setAlgorithmHeaderValue(KeyManagementAlgorithmIdentifiers.A128KW);
 jwe.setEncryptionMethodHeaderParameter(ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifiers.AES_128_CBC_HMAC_SHA_256);
 jwe.setKey(key);
 String serializedJwe = jwe.getCompactSerialization();
 System.out.println("Serialized Encrypted JWE: " + serializedJwe);
 jwe = new JsonWebEncryption();
 jwe.setKey(key);
 jwe.setCompactSerialization(serializedJwe);
 System.out.println("Payload: " + jwe.getPayload());
}}}

=== More Examples ===
Additional and more detailed examples and explanations are available:

* [[JWT%20Examples|JWT Examples]] shows how to produce and consume JSON Web Tokens.

* [[JWS%20Examples|JWS Examples]] shows how to easily apply and verify signatures.

* [[JWE%20Examples|JWE Examples]] shows how to encrypt and decrypt messages.

* [[GSON%20and%20JWK|GSON serialization/deserialization of JWK objects]]

* [[Jackson%20and%20JWK|Jackson serialization/deserialization of JWK objects]]

* A [[http://www.slideshare.net/briandavidcampbell/jose-can-you-see-34360871|presentation at IIW 18]] and [[http://www.slideshare.net/briandavidcampbell/i-left-my-jwt-in-san-jose|a similar one at CIS 2014]] have some code examples along with some general information about JOSE and JWT. 

* Javadocs are online [[http://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.bitbucket.b_c/jose4j/|here at javadoc.io]] though they are currently rather sparse on actual documentation (but getting better!) 

* [[04-01-15-Transparency|Response and analysis to some potential JWT vulnerabilities]] has some (maybe) useful info on using AlgorithmConstraints to specify what algorithms are allowed per JOSE or JWT object

== Need help? ==
There's a [[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/jose4j|jose4j]] tag on Stack Overflow that I (and some others) are reasonably attentive to. The [[https://bitbucket.org/b_c/jose4j/issues|project issue tracker]] is also available, if you've found a defect or have an enhancement request. 


== Release Notes == 
The [[Release%20Notes|Release Notes]] give a changelog of the project. 

== Algorithm Support == 
All of the JOSE algorithms are fully implemented by jose4j. However, the library relies on the underlying cryptography provider in the Java Runtime Environment so, depending on the deployment environment, some algorithms may not be available at runtime. The tables below lists all the supported JWS/JWE/JWK algorithms and is annotated with some common JCA provider requirements.    

\\
**JWS**
|= Digital Signature or MAC Algorithm|= JWS "alg" Parameter Value|
|HMAC using SHA-2|HS256, HS384 and HS512|
|RSASSA-PKCS1-V1_5 Digital Signatures with with SHA-2|RS256, RS384 and RS512|
|Elliptic Curve Digital Signatures (ECDSA) with SHA-2|ES256, ES384 and ES512|
|RSASSA-PSS Digital Signatures with SHA-2|PS256†, PS384† and PS512†|
|Unsigned Plaintext|none|

\\
**JWE Key Encryption and Key Agreement**
|= Key Management Algorithm|= JWE "alg" Parameter Value|
|Direct encryption with a shared symmetric key| dir|
|RSAES-PKCS1-V1_5 key encryption|RSA1_5|
|RSAES using OAEP key encryption|RSA-OAEP and RSA-OAEP-256¶|
|AES key wrap|A128KW, A192KW* and A256KW*|
|AES GCM key encryption|A128GCMKW‡, A192GCMKW*‡ and A256GCMKW*‡|
|Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral Static key agreement using Concat KDF|ECDH-ES|
|Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Ephemeral Static key agreement using Concat KDF with AES key wrap|ECDH-ES+A128KW, ECDH-ES+A192KW*, ECDH-ES+A256KW*|
|PBES2 with HMAC SHA-2 and AES key wrapping| PBES2-HS256+A128KW, PBES2-HS384+A192KW* and PBES2-HS512+A256KW*|

\\
**JWE Content Encryption**
|= Content Encryption Algorithm|= JWE "enc" Parameter Value|
|Authenticated encryption with AES-CBC and HMAC-SHA2|A128CBC-HS256, A192CBC-HS384* and A256CBC-HS512*|
|Authenticated encryption with Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) in Galois/Counter Mode (GCM)|A128GCM‡, A192GCM*‡ and A256GCM*‡| 

\\
**JWE Compression**
|= Compression Algorithm|= JWE "zip" Parameter Value|
|DEFLATE Compressed Data Format from RFC 1951|DEF|

\\
**JWK**
|= Key Type|= JWK "kty" Parameter Value|
|Elliptic Curve Public/Private Keys|EC|
|RSA Public/Private Keys|RSA|
|Symmetric Keys (Octet sequence)|oct|

\\* Requires the JCE's Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files be installed for the JRE (download for [[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce-7-download-432124.html|Java 7]] and [[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce8-download-2133166.html|Java 8]]).
\\† Requires the [[https://www.bouncycastle.org/java.html|Bouncy Castle]] JCA provider (or another provider which supports RSASSA-PSS) 
\\‡ Requires Java 8 or the Bouncy Castle v1.50+ JCA provider (or another provider which supports AEAD ciphers though the JCA interface including recognizing GCMParameterSpec)
\\¶ Requires Java 8 or the Bouncy Castle JCA provider (or another provider which supports RSA/ECB/OAEPWithSHA-256AndMGF1Padding and an OAEPParameterSpec that indicates SHA-256 for MGF1) 

== Dependencies ==
Jose4j is compiled with/for Java 7 and will also run on Java 8.

The jose.4.j library relies on the [[http://www.slf4j.org/|Simple Logging Facade for Java (SLF4J)]]. Prior to v0.4.4 [[http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-logging/|Appache Commons Logging]] was used. 

As of v0.3.7 jose4j's JSON processing was derived from the [[https://code.google.com/p/json-simple/|JSON.simple toolkit]] and Base64 encoding/decoding was derived from the [[http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-codec/|Apache Commons Codec]] project. 

== Acknowledgments ==
I'd like to thank Dan McNulty, Dmitry Vsekhvalnov, Guoping Liu, Jason Musgrave, Jeremie Miller, John Bradley, Justin Kwong, Thomas Broyer, Tim McLean, Jan Willem Janssen, Magnus Andersson, Samo Remec, Yang Yu, and Antonio Sanso for feedback and suggestions (please let me know if you deserve acknowledgment but I've somehow forgotten you). 

Lastly, but maybe most importantly, I'd like to thank my employer, [[https://www.pingidentity.com|Ping Identity]].  I do believe that Ping benefits from this work (the library is used extensively in Ping's products). But I know for sure none of it would have happened without Ping.